# CSE425_04_1511944642
    Course: CSE425 - Concepts of Programming Language  Instructor’s Name: Adjunct Associate Professor Kamruddin Nur  Section: 04  Assignment: Implement searching on the given data (NCHS_-_Leading_Causes_of_Death__United_States) in Comma Separated File Format  Language Used: Shell script(mandatory), C plus plus(optional), Python(optional)  Submission Deadline: 15th December, 2019  Student’s Name: Md. Mahmudul Haque  Id No. : 1511944642  The code of the assignment that I have implemented are on three languages and before hopping into the contrast and comparison of those languages I am here giving a brief description on my procedure of coding.  I used string searching Users are offered to search on their preference of column value While a match is found the program will return the entire row of that file I used for and while loop to search for the specific string that user might look for Exceptions are handled in C plus plus and Python whereas I used if else statement to handle exception in Shell Script Aliasing are used Type casting have been used in Python Concatenation of strings are used in all the languages.  Now let’s see what are the comparison and contrast between the codes of those languages!  Shell script:  Key Points of my Code Description #no libraries needed to import! And no curly braces In shell script no libraries are needed to import explicitly. So it is indicating that this programming language is more easy to write and read for the non-programmers also. And for the curly braces, to implement the code, prior knowledge is required. while:  #no condition More liberal while handling loop. Needs user interruption or programmer’s sentinels to stop infinity cycle. If else fi, case….esac, do… done To indicate the end of if-else block I have to write ‘fi’ term after each if-else block and similar happened to case … esac term under the case block and do … done block. Not readable and to write, one has to have prior knowledge. No need to declare the type of variables In Shell Script the type of variables are not needed to be declared by the programmer explicitly. So it is loosely typed and checking runtime. And least reliable. ‘ ;; ’ after every case block To mark the end of each case Shell script needs to be said the ‘ ;; ’ . *  state in case block This is indicating the general block of case if the options does not match then this block will be operated. Not so readable. foo = foo + ‘,’ Or foo = ‘,’ + foo + ‘,’   Easy to concatenate, so easy to write. Also orthogonal. No exception handling I used if else fi instead.  C plus plus(C++):  Key Points of my Code Description #include &lt;bits/stdc++.h> Libraries are needed to be declared explicitly. Different than Shell Script and Python. using namespace std It is used to indicate the compiler that the standard naming convention of c++ is being used. So it is more strict in terms of language building block. Different than Shell Script and Python. int main() { …. } To execute the whole code the code must be in between the curly braces of main function block. So this is supporting abstraction. Also the statements are compound and understandable if C is known. Different than Shell Script and Python. Type checking; example - string year; Usually check the type during compile time and strongly typed. Different than Shell Script. But python is loosely typed. while(1){ .. } To operate the while loop, the coder must at least need to assign it to a true value. Expressive and writeable though always need to have some knowledge on c++ before writing code using it. Also compound. Different than Shell Script and Python. ifstream Working as a input stream to read the file. Type and work specified. Similar to Python and Shell Script try{ …if(inFile) else throw “....” }  catch(const char* e){ … }  To handle exception, c++ has some built in library to handle it and user either can define or not to about the variation of exception he/she wants to handle. The try block is used as experiment part whereas the catch block will catch if there is no such file according to my code. Compound with form and meaning. Almost similar to Python but Shell script does not have this facility. bool flag This is indicating that c++ is capable of using concised parameters in terms of programming paradigm. But not orthogonal as I have to handle boolean value all the time. Similar to Python in some case but Shell Script does not have it. cout or cin Capable of printing and taking input through object as c++ allows object oriented programming whereas Python also support this.  Python:  Key Points of my Code Description flag = True Boolean data type exists and so it is concise which is similar to C++ but Shell Script does not have this print() Capable of procedural, functional, and object oriented job. C++ is almost similar but Shell script is totally different here. try:     ….. except Exception:     ……. To handle exception, python has some built in library to handle it and user either can define or not to about the variation of exception he/she wants to handle. The try block is used as experiment part whereas the catch block will catch if there is no such file according to my code. Compound with form and meaning like C++. file = open("NCHS_-_Leading_Causes_of_Death__United_States.csv") Python allows aliasing whereas C++ uses referencing in alias. with file: ... Helpful while handling files. Do not need to reopen and close the file every time. C++ also have similar to this but in stream format. But Shell script is more better in handling files option = input() option = int(option) Allows type checking like C++ but loosely typed like Shell script if... elif... Have conditional statements which are also in C++ and Shell Script   Conclusion:  So far according to my knowledge, I found out that while interacting with file Shell script is much more easier but also Python gives a good file handling libraries now like: Pandas and C++ is more prone to let user follow the programming paradigm while handling files.
